---
slug: v0.41.0
date: 2025-05-06
links:
  - v0.41.0 GitHub release: https://github.com/galasa-dev/galasa/releases/tag/v0.41.0
---

# 0.41.0 - Release Highlights

## Changes affecting the Galasa Service

- Streams Service:

    - Streams can now be created, updated and deleted using a new set of REST API endpoints.
    - Command-line tool list or delete report streams, or create and apply changes to stream resources using the galasactl apply -f command.

- Resource Management:

    - Custom managers can have their cleanup code executed in a new "Resource Cleanup Monitor" construct, allowing for more cleanup of remote resources after test failures.
    - Cleanup monitors load resource management code from a given test stream.
    - New REST API commands allow manipulation and query of stream definitions.
    - Improved command-line can enable or disable monitors dynamically.

- Tagging of test run results:

    - Test runs can be submitted with extra tags, which are combined with the annotation tags inside the test source code such that the test results are also tagged with the combined set of tags.
    - Extra tagging in test run details can help categorise failures and can contribute to better charting of results over time.

- Kubernetes CPU and Memory resources:

    - For each pod, including pods that runs tests, can optionally specify resources constraints. Telling Kubernetes how much CPU and memory each pod needs helps Kubernetes spread workload among nodes in the cluster. The default install now specifies such limits.

- Miscellaneous:

    - Tests which are re-queued or cancelled get marked as finished, rather than appearing to be active forever.
    - Querying runs with the --active flag no longer returns cancelled runs. Cancelled runs are marked as finished now.
    - Web user interface footer shows the version of the Galasa service, and a health indicator.
    - Test runner handles exceptions from rogue manager code better, so test cleanup can be performed.

## Changes affecting local tests

- Managers vetoing method execution changes:

    - Managers implementing `anyReasonTestMethodShouldBeIgnored` are no longer asked whether the test method should be ignored before running the `@Before` and `@After` methods. If the test method is ignored, then the `@Before` and `@After` methods are also ignored.

- Tests can find out if the test has failed yet:

    - Test code can ask for a TestStatus provider to be injected into their object. This can be used to find out if the test has failed yet or not, and can be useful when doing complex cleanup of resources allocated during the test.

- 3270 Manager can now process SSCP-LU-DATA:

    - Unformatted data screens are processed and the contents made available to test applications.

- `@ContinueOnTestFailure` annotations:

    - These annotations are now respected by the Galasa framework.

## Other changes

- Make contributing code easier:

    - Code for the galasactl command-line tool has moved git repositories, to the galasa repository.
      This simplifies the build process and makes changes on a fork easier to build and verify.

