---
slug: v0.42.0
date: 2025-06-10
links:
  - v0.42.0 GitHub release: https://github.com/galasa-dev/galasa/releases/tag/v0.42.0
---

# 0.42.0 - Release Highlights

## Changes affecting the Galasa Service

- Cancel a run group using the Group ID. [See the new command syntax](../../docs/reference/cli-syntax/galasactl_runs_cancel.md)

- For developers of Galasa: Easier development of the Web user interface
    - A Personal Access Token can now be used to run a local instance of the web user interface, targetting an existing Galasa Service. 

- Added a configuration setting `kubeLaunchIntervalMillisecs` in the Galasa Helm chart to control the time between launching of successive test runs, to space out launches more evenly so that Kubernetes is not as stressed.

- Various defects, fixes, version uplifts

## Changes affecting tests running locally or on the Galasa Service

- IMS-TM Manager - Improvements to how the manager handles active conversations (See issue [#2250](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2250))

## Other changes

- Make contributing code easier:

    - Code for the Galasa documentation has moved git repositories, to the [`galasa` repository](https://github.com/galasa-dev/galasa).
      This simplifies the build process for the Galasa documentation and makes changes on a git fork easier to build and verify.
      It also facilitates closer integration between the javadoc, REST interface, CLI syntax and the rest of the material.

- New look for the Galasa web site:
    
    - The look and feel of the [Galasa website and documentation](../../index.md) has been improved.
      The site now includes page-indexes on the right to navigate each page of the documentation.
      The site also supports light and dark mode for easy-reading.
      Command-line tool syntax is now more integrated with the documentation, and is searchable.